Sd key transactions revamp v1 (#11475)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/transactions/key-transactions/introduction-key-transactions.mdx

  - /docs/apm/selected-transactions/key-transactions/key-transactions-tracking-important-transactions-or-events
  - /docs/apm/transactions/key-transactions/key-transactions-tracking-important-transactions-or-events
  - /docs/key_transaction/key_transactions
  - /docs/apm/transactions/key-transactions/create-update-key-transactions
  - /docs/apm/transactions/key-transactions/tag-key-transactions
---

import apmKeyTransactionsTrackChanges from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_key-transactions-track-changes.png'

import apmServiceMapsandKeyTransactions from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_service-maps-and-key-transactions.png'

import apmLookoutandKeyTransactions from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_lookout-and-key-transactions.png'

import apmWorkloadsandKeyTransactions from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_workloads-and-key-transactions.png'

> Key transactions are a way for engineering teams to create custom level monitoring on their most meaningful transactions. The APM monitoring tools of New Relic help you swiftly detect and solve problems before they impact your users by reporting on _all transactions_. But sometimes the information that is essential to running your digital business isn't the most highly trafficked.  This is where key transactions can help you track essential transactions you want to monitor and manage—regardless of the overall application throughput. 

Reviewer: It might be nice to mention that if users need help with the concept of transactions and whether their framework supports them, they could see the intro: https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/transactions/intro-transactions/transactions-new-relic-apm/

Author: Good idea! This is done!

## Key transactions in practice 

> Let's think about a scenario where a customer logs in to your e-commerce application to purchase a phone. The customer experiences slow response when they try load the plans page and browse the services. This results in the customer leaving the site and abandoning the purchase. Your `PlanService` microservice team needs to quickly identify the root cause of this slowdown and fix it to avoid losing more customers. 

Reviewer: @homelessbirds I really like having this example that runs through the various sections!

Author: Thanks, rob!

Your team starts by identifying `PlanService's` most important business transaction: `getPlans`(which loads the plans page). Then, you need to make `getPlans` a key transaction, apply relevant tags, and analyze it within the context of the greater [entity ecosystem](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic/).

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    id="create-key-transactions"
    title="Create key transactions"
  >

> To make `getPlans` a key transaction, select **Make key transaction** in the transaction details view. You can also automate this step by using the REST API to both create and stop tracking key transactions. 

Reviewer: @homelessbirds where is this in the UI? For the rename, you've got some directions about how to find this. You might also explore some deeplinks that go right into the UI instead of having the laborious, "Go to ...."

Author: Done!

> After you create a key transactions, they become part of the New Relic entity ecosystem. You can see all the transactions, including the `getPlans` key transaction you just created, under the **entity list view**.  

Reviewer: @homelessbirds I think you have a subject-verb agreement issue. How about, "After you create key transactions, they..."?

<img
  title="New Relic Lookout and key transactions"
  alt="A screenshot depicting New Relic Lookout and key transactions."
  src={apmLookoutandKeyTransactions}
/>
</Collapser>

<Collapser
    id="service-maps"
    title="Understand impact through service maps"
  >

To understand the complete impact of the `getPlans` transaction performance degradation, you can use a [service map](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/ui-data/service-maps/introduction-service-maps/). You can visualize the health of all the other connected entities like the originating service, hosts, databases, and other key transactions.

<img
  title="Service maps and key transactions"
  alt="A screenshot depicting service level maps and key transactions"
  src={apmServiceMapsandKeyTransactions}
/>

</Collapser>
  <Collapser
    id="change tracking"
    title="Track changes"
  >

> To track the impact of any change event, such as code deployments, configuration changes, and business events, you can use the [change tracking markers](/docs/change-tracking/change-tracking-view-analyze/) on the key transaction charts. This helps you drill down further in the trace to troubleshoot the changes that are causing issues. 

Reviewer: @homelessbirds I'm pretty familiar with the change tracing routine, and it seems you would first need to designate key transactions to track using GraphQL, the CLI, or some kind of CI/CD tool like Jenkins. I'm not sure we cover the the key transactions use case in our docs (I could be mistaken).

Author: good catch, thanks!

import apmMakeaKeyTransaction from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_make-a-key-transaction.png'

import apmTagaKeyTransaction from 'images/apm_screenshot-full_tag-a-key-transaction.png'

Key transactions are a way for engineering teams to create custom level monitoring on their most meaningful transactions. The APM monitoring tools of New Relic help you swiftly detect and solve problems before they impact your users by reporting on _all transactions_. But sometimes the information that is essential to running your digital business isn't the most highly trafficked.  This is where key transactions can help you track essential transactions you want to monitor and manage—regardless of the overall application throughput. 

## Key transactions in practice 

Let's think about a scenario where a customer logs in to your e-commerce application to purchase a phone. The customer experiences slow response when they try load the plans page and browse the services. This results in the customer leaving the site and abandoning the purchase. Your `PlanService` microservice team needs to quickly identify the root cause of this slowdown and fix it to avoid losing more customers. 

> Your team starts by identifying `PlanService's` most important business transaction: `getPlans`(which loads the plans page). Then, you need to make `getPlans` a key transaction, apply relevant tags, and analyze it within the context of the greater [entity ecosystem](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your team starts by identifying `PlanService`'s most important business transaction: `getPlans`(which loads the plans page). Then, you need to make `getPlans` a key transaction, apply relevant tags, and analyze it within the context of the greater [entity ecosystem](/docs/new-relic-solutions/new-relic-one/core-concepts/what-entity-new-relic/).
```
